No Jesus, isn't it?
I am his and he is mine.
Hallelujah.
And what a blessing to be saved by the grace of God.
And if you have your Bible with you,
the gospel of John this morning,
John chapter number eight.
And I mentioned already, it is Memorial Day weekend.
And you know, I believe I've kind of had this concern
for a number of years now that many in our nation
do not really understand the purpose
and meaning of Memorial Day.
And for many, it's the start of the summer travel plans
and the pools in the community open up
and all of these types of things.
And really it has nothing to do with any of that.
It has everything to do with the many
that have given their lives
in defense of the freedom of our nation.
It's a day of remembrance to remember those
that gave the ultimate sacrifice
so that we could have freedom here in America.
And I'm thankful for the freedom that we have
and it's a blessing and we ought never forget.
I was talking to the teenagers this morning
during the teen Sunday school class
and we live so close to Washington DC
and there's so many memorials that are there
that we have the privilege of being able
to easily go and visit and to be reminded
of the rich heritage that we have as a nation
and those that gave the ultimate sacrifice
so that we could have freedom today.
It's about 1.3 million people is the estimate
of those that have given their lives
for us to have freedom and what a blessing
and we're thankful for that sacrifice.
We do not take it lightly.
As a believer, I am thankful if you begin to think
about who we are, our identity in Christ.
First and foremost, I am not an American.
First and foremost, I am a child of God.
I'm a Christian, amen.
I have dual citizenship.
My citizenship is in heaven and what a blessing.
I'm not home, I'm going home, praise the Lord
but as a individual living here upon planet Earth,
I am blessed and we are blessed to live in America
and to call this land our home and what a blessing that is
but this morning, I don't wanna just focus
on the freedom that we have as Americans
and I'm thankful for that.
Don't misunderstand.
I'm very grateful for the freedoms that we have
but I wanna focus upon the freedom that we have in Christ.
What a blessing to understand the truth of the word of God
with regard to the freedom that we have in Christ.
I have you here in John chapter number eight.
I do not have the time this morning to go
through the entirety of the chapter
but we find that according to verses two
in verse number 20, that Jesus is teaching
at the temple here in John chapter number eight.
The religious leaders were present.
They were not receiving the instruction.
Oftentimes, they would hear Jesus teach
and oftentimes, even as they would listen
to the teaching of Jesus, they would gather to hear him
so that they might bring some accusation against him.
They weren't gathering so they could learn something.
They were gathering so that they could accuse him
of something and by the way, that's been the case
for 2,000 years of church history.
There's some people that come to church
because they wanna get something from God, amen.
There's some people that go to church
because they wanna criticize someone
or the preaching or whatever it might be
but the reality is that that's nothing new.
Jesus dealt with it there in John chapter number eight
but guess what he did?
He just kept on preaching, amen
and he just kept on giving the truth
and we find that as you study
through the portion of scripture,
not only on two occasions does the gospel tell us
that he's teaching there at the temple
but according to verse 21 and 24
on three different times in those two verses,
Jesus makes this statement, ye shall die in your sins.
Look at it in verse 21, then said Jesus again unto them,
I go my way and ye shall seek me
and shall die in your sins.
Whither I go, ye cannot come.
Again in verse 24, I said therefore unto you
that ye shall die in your sins
for if you believe not that I am he,
ye shall die in your sins.
It's all about who Jesus is, amen.
The purpose of the church is to exalt
and magnify the Lord Jesus Christ
and we seek through all that we do
to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ.
It's all about him, amen
and we find that Jesus says to these religious leaders,
those that were gathered on this particular day
that I said therefore unto you
that you should die in your sins.
Why?
For if you believe not that I am he,
ye shall die in your sins.
Jesus would say in just a few chapters,
I am the way, the truth and the life,
no man cometh unto the Father but by me.
Jesus is the only way.
Hallelujah, I'm thankful that there is a way,
the way, Jesus Christ.
We're not left here hopeless and helpless
that Jesus, the son of God, God in flesh
came to this sin-cursed world,
took upon himself the form of a servant of a man
so that he could die in your place and in my place
and what a blessing.
And he says if you do not believe,
if you believe not that I am he.
Listen, Jesus is more than a prophet.
Amen, he's more than a good man.
He's more than, you start listening,
no, he is God.
Praise the Lord that God has given to us
the record that we have in the scriptures.
We find that according to John chapter number eight
in verse number 30,
notice what the Bible says there in verse number 30,
as he spake these words, notice this,
many believed on him.
Aren't you thankful that as those that heard the message,
they heard what Jesus was saying,
that they believed it, they had faith,
they believed that what Jesus was saying was true
and they took and they received what he had given.
And we find that Jesus speaks directly
to this group of people in verse number 32.
And it says this, and ye shall know the truth
and the truth shall make you free.
And I'm so thankful that Jesus spoke the truth,
that he gave us the truth, that he is truth.
We find the Bible says of itself in John 17 in verse 17,
that thy word, sanctify them through thy word,
thy word is truth.
And Jesus said in John 14 in verse number six,
that he is truth.
And so we find that he speaks this,
he makes this great declaration.
He says to them, and ye shall know the truth
and the truth shall make you free.
Now the discussion that immediately takes place thereafter
is important for us to consider this morning
as we get into the message.
Notice, if you will, in verse number 33,
the Bible says this, they answered him,
we be Abraham's seed and were never in bondage to any man.
How sayest thou, ye shall be made free?
Obviously, these are not the people that believed.
These are the other people that are gathered,
probably many of the religious leaders.
And those religious leaders always taking an issue
with what Jesus would teach.
And they said this, we be Abraham's seed
and were never in bondage.
You know what they were, they were delusional.
They were delusional.
As they spoke the words,
you know who they were in bondage to, the Romans.
If they knew anything about their history,
you know who they've been in bondage to,
the Assyrians and the Babylonians.
And you begin to think about even the period of the judges
and all the people that oppress them.
And they say, we be Abraham's seed
and we go all the way back to the judges
and make that reference because Abraham precedes them.
And that really would also include the Egyptian bondage.
Amen.
And so they're delusional.
Can I tell you there's still people
that are delusional today?
They are, I'm being honest with you.
I'm not using the word to be condescending.
I'm not trying to be rude or unkind.
I'm just simply saying people are delusional.
They don't want to accept the truth.
And we find here that they say that we have never
and were never in bondage to any man.
How sayest thou you shall be made free?
Now, let me explain something before I get
into the next couple of verses.
Yes, I already talked about they're delusional
and who they'd been in bondage to.
They're strictly thinking about it from a physical sense,
from a temporal sense.
Can I help you understand this morning
that oftentimes we look at the scriptures.
Yes, there are times in which Jesus
will give earthly teachings,
but there's always a heavenly truth
that goes along with it.
And we find that as you study the scriptures,
that it's more than just God giving us instruction
with regard to temporal things,
but with regard to eternal things.
Jesus was concerned not about their bondage to the Romans.
He was concerned about their bondage to sin, amen.
Now there are people that wanted to know
when are you gonna deliver us
from the bondage of the Romans, right?
They want it to be delivered from that.
You study through various portions of scripture
in the gospels, in the book of Acts
and various things would happen.
And all of a sudden the Romans would ready themselves
and man, it was just a cause for concern.
All sorts of things, why?
Because they understood the authority.
Some were looking for a deliverer from the Romans,
but Jesus was concerned primarily
not with their bondage to a people group,
but their bondage to sin.
The Bible says in verse number 34,
Jesus answered them,
verily, verily, I say unto you,
notice where he says,
whosoever committed sin is the servant of sin.
And the servant abideth not in the house forever,
but the son abideth ever.
If the son therefore shall make you free,
ye shall be free indeed.
Hallelujah.
The focus here as Jesus is speaking
and teaching at the temple,
the focus of the message this morning
is freedom from that bondage of sin.
See, freedom is identified or defined this way.
It's as a state of exemption.
from the power or control of another.
We can think about that freedom.
How many young people, I want my freedom, right?
They're gonna get out of the house
and they're gonna have their freedom.
They're 18 years old and man, they got it all figured out.
And all of a sudden they realize
that that freedom is gonna cost them a lot more
than they thought it was going to and so on and so forth.
And people wanna leave a certain place on geography,
like from a geographical perspective,
they wanna leave a certain place to come to another place
why they want freedom from whatever
is kind of controlling them and has that power over them.
But we think about it in the context of Christianity,
in the biblical context,
it's to set at liberty from the dominion of sin.
I've titled the message simply this this morning,
do you want to be free?
Do you wanna be free?
And we think and think about this subject
and begin to look at what's taking place here.
And I think if we were to talk about it
strictly from a temporal perspective,
if I were to ask that question to people randomly
about freedom, talking about again, temporally,
I think everyone's like, yeah, I want my freedom.
We're talking about the freedom that we can have in Christ,
you wanna be free, do you wanna have that freedom
from the bondage of sin?
Notice with me a few things, we'll look here,
we've mentioned several things in John eight,
we'll look at Romans as well this morning
as we go through the message.
Number one, the condition of humanity,
the condition of humanity.
We talk about freedom this morning,
we see Jesus here dealing with those at the temple.
And yes, we see that there are some that believe,
but even as he has the interaction
with these religious leaders,
he tells them that they're gonna die in their sin.
See, the condition of humanity is that there is sin,
the existence of sin, we understand it.
And we see that there's a penalty for sin.
Look at Romans chapter number eight, if you will.
And again, we'll be in the book of Romans
several times this morning
in a number of different portions of scripture,
because here in the book of Romans,
we see a comparative and really a situation
where the scriptures are going to really enlighten us
even in a greater way to the truth
with regard to this freedom.
And we think about the condition of humanity.
Look in Romans chapter number eight, in verse number one.
The Bible says this, there is therefore now
no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus
who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit.
And on this particular point,
we're gonna focus on verse number two.
Notice the Bible says for the law of the spirit of life
in Christ Jesus, notice this phrase,
hath made me free from the law of sin and death.
Can I tell you that this morning,
there is the law of sin and death.
That law of sin and death that we find
that the Bible tells us in Romans chapter number three,
that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
We understand according to Romans chapter number five.
In fact, it's maybe on the same page, a page over for you.
But in Romans chapter number five, in verse number 12,
the Bible says wherefore as by one man,
sin entered into the world and death by sin.
And so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned.
Romans 6.23, the first part of the verse says,
for the wages of sin is death.
And so we find in Romans chapter eight in verse number two,
when God is revealing to us this truth
with regard to the law of sin and death.
It is a law that is still operational.
It's a law that is functional.
It is a law that humanity is subject to.
And we find that here is we understand
the law of sin and death.
The Bible says that Jesus Christ hath made me free
from the law of sin and death.
And so I have to understand the condition of humanity.
Now understand with me this truth this morning.
You can, like the Jews in John chapter number eight,
deny the reality.
You can say we be Abraham's seed.
We've never been in bondage.
You can deny the reality,
but I encourage you to accept the truth
regarding your own condition
and the condition of those around us.
See, we have to be aware of the fact this morning,
we think about the condition of humanity.
I understand that many of us here this morning,
we've been set free.
We have trusted Jesus Christ as our personal savior.
And I'm so thankful for the gift of God,
which is eternal life.
Praise God for it.
But I want you to understand this morning
that the condition of humanity,
the law of sin and death is operational.
People that we come in contact with,
our loved ones that have not trusted Jesus as their savior,
the law of sin and death, they need to be free.
Why?
Because they are in bondage.
They're in bondage.
Notice in 2 Peter chapter number two,
and I just wanna reference this.
In fact, I added it to my notes this morning.
I had Ronnie call me this week on Friday.
He said, are you preparing your message?
I said, no, I've already finished that.
I like to be done on Thursdays.
It just depends on how the week goes.
Trying to prepare four messages,
it just doesn't always get done by Thursday.
But I do like to be done by Thursday.
And this morning as I was praying
for you and our services,
God brought this verse into my mind
of 2 Peter chapter two.
And what a blessing to consider the condition of humanity,
the blessing that we have to be in Christ,
but also understanding that some have believed the lie
that's spoken of here in 2 Peter chapter number two.
In the chapter, again, we don't have time
to deal with the entirety of the chapter,
but it begins in verse number one
by telling us about the false prophets
and that there shall be false teachers among you.
Can I tell you that false teachers are very active?
False teaching is prevalent.
Can I tell you this morning that literally we will have,
we had Super Saturday a few weeks ago.
We try to get all hands on deck.
We had about just under 30 that were here.
Do you know weekly at the Kingdom Hall
down the road over here,
they have hundreds of people going out,
peddling their false teaching every single week.
I go by there, I see them.
I see them in the neighborhoods where we go.
They're peddling.
Listen, the false teaching is out there.
It's prevalent.
And we find here this morning that it says
in 2 Peter two and verse number 19, notice this,
while they, speaking of those false teachers,
while they promise them liberty,
again, liberty, we could use that synonym with freedom.
And he says, while they promise them liberty,
they themselves are the servants of corruption
for of whom a man is overcome of the same
as he brought in bondage.
And so we find that humanity, listen,
the condition of humanity,
there is the law of sin and death.
There's the deception of the enemy.
The deception is real.
The false teachers are real.
The Bible tells us that the little G, God of this world,
has blinded the minds of them which believe not,
lest the light of the glorious gospel
should shine unto them.
In 2 Corinthians chapter number four,
we find that later in chapter 10,
the Bible talks about how Satan transforms himself
into an angel of light.
The deception is real.
It's something we have to be aware of.
So we see this morning the condition of humanity.
They're in bondage.
Listen, this morning, every one of us was in bondage.
Amen?
Thank God for his grace.
Thank God that somebody was willing to preach the gospel.
Amen?
And go out and put some,
how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel,
Romans chapter number 10, amen?
They're willing to leave a comfortable church building
and go into the highways and byways of life
and preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Praise God for it.
We notice all of the condition of humanity.
Notice with me the compassion of Christ.
Number two, the compassion of Christ.
There in Romans chapter number eight,
we think about the condition of humanity
and we see here about the truth of the law of sin and death.
We see also the compassion of Christ
for the verse begins in verse number two.
Well, verse number one talks about to them
which are in Christ Jesus.
Verse number two, for the law of the spirit of life
in Christ Jesus.
I'm thankful for the law of the spirit of life in Christ
because it's that law,
that reality of what Jesus did in his compassion
that brings freedom from the law of sin and death.
In verse number three, the Bible says,
for what the law could not do.
Listen, there's some people that are trying to keep the law.
Some people trying to keep the law.
Are you gonna go to heaven when you die?
Yeah, how do you know that?
Well, I'm trying to keep the law.
Really?
How are you doing with that?
You know what I'm saying?
You know what the law does?
The law condemns.
The law according to the book of Galatians cannot give life.
The law is a schoolmaster.
What does the schoolmaster do?
It points us to Jesus because the law cannot give life.
And so the Bible says here in verse number three,
for what the law could not do.
It was impossible in that it was weak through the flesh.
God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh
for out and for sin.
Notice what the Bible says, condemned sin in the flesh.
Praise God for his compassion.
See this morning, we mentioned already about the freedom
that we have in America and the 1.3 million or so people
that gave their lives for the freedom that we enjoy.
But we understand as believers, there's a cost for freedom.
How many of you ever said, or you've heard said,
we think about the freedom in America,
that freedom isn't free?
You've heard it, you've said it,
and you're familiar with that phraseology
that freedom isn't free.
There's still countless millions of people
that are volunteering in our armed forces today
to continue to preserve and protect our freedom.
This day, this holiday is about those
that have given the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom,
but we're mindful this morning
that freedom isn't free as a nation,
but when we think about it as Christians,
to be free from the bondage of the law of sin and death,
we had to have a sacrifice.
We had to have a substitute.
Somebody took our place.
Listen, we're here enjoying the freedom
as Americans this morning,
because a million point three people
gave their lives for our freedom,
and I'm telling you this morning
that as Christians, as believers,
our freedom, it's not 1.3 million,
it's one person, God in the flesh,
the Lord Jesus Christ.
And we find that the payment for the freedom
has been made, and it's the precious blood
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
There you are in the book of Romans.
Look in chapter five again with me.
In Romans chapter number five,
we find that we read verse 12 a moment ago,
but look at verse number eight in Romans chapter number five,
but God commendeth his love toward us,
and that while we were yet sinners,
what's it say?
Christ died for us.
Praise God.
Verse 18, look at what the Bible says
in Romans five and verse number 18.
Therefore, as by the offense of one,
who's that?
Well, that's Adam.
We read that already in verse 12 and following.
It says, therefore, as by the offense of one,
judgment came upon all men to what?
To condemnation.
Even so, by the righteousness of one,
the free gift came upon all men
unto justification of life.
Peter says that the just for the unjust,
and I'm so thankful as we read
in the book of Second Corinthians,
for God hath made him, Jesus,
to be sin for us who knew no sin,
that we might be made the righteousness of God in him,
and what a blessing to understand the compassion.
You read through the gospel records
and you read where the Bible says
that Jesus was moved with compassion.
Our God is compassionate.
I'm so thankful this morning
that the message doesn't end
with the condition of humanity.
What a sad state we would be in
if it was just that God gave us a record
that you're all condemned because you rejected me,
but we see the compassion,
the compassion of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Let me say this.
We too need to be compassionate.
Some having compassion, Jude, making a difference.
People need to see that we love them,
that we're compassionate,
that we have a desire for people to have that freedom
from the bondage of sin.
Everybody that you know,
everybody that I know that's not saved,
they're in bondage to sin.
They can deny the reality,
but they need to know the condition,
they need to understand the condition of their own heart,
and they need to understand the compassion
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Let me say this this morning
as we continue through the thought here
with regard to the condition and the compassion.
Notice with me number three,
the choice of individuals.
Here's the amazing thing.
God gives you a choice.
God gives a choice.
The facts are presented.
The truth of the condition of humanity
is plainly spelled out throughout the book of the Bible,
and we find that the condition is clear,
and God repeats it over and over
so that individuals will understand their condition.
The compassion of Christ is seen throughout the scriptures.
We understand how the Old Testament
would point to the fact that Messiah would come,
and he would give his life as a ransom
so that he could pay for the sin of humanity.
Why?
Because of that fall,
because of that condition,
and we see the compassion,
and not only the Old Testament
pointing to the fact that Jesus would come,
but the gospel records giving to each of us
the record of his birth and his life
and his death and his resurrection,
and we find that throughout the New Testament,
the message going forth of preaching
about the salvation that is available
through Jesus Christ alone.
But we preach the gospel,
and the individual has a choice.
We think about the choice of the individual.
The choice is very simple.
It's either to receive or to reject.
The Bible tells us,
as we read there just a moment ago
in the gospel of John in chapter number eight,
and you look there at verse number 30,
and you look there again at verse number 33,
as we read those verses a moment ago,
each of those people that heard Jesus teach
that day at the temple,
they had a choice.
The Bible said that some heard him
and some believed,
and then others said,
hey, we're not in bondage to anybody.
Some received and some rejected.
The Bible tells us in John chapter number one
that he came to his own
and his own received him not.
But as many as received him,
to them gave he power to become the sons of God,
even to them that believe on his name.
And I want you to understand
that some people say,
well, I'm gonna just kind of put that off.
That's a choice.
It's a choice.
Harden your heart.
Say maybe one day.
No, no, the Bible says that today
is the day of salvation.
The Bible tells us that no man knoweth
what a day may bring forth.
The Bible tells us what is your life?
It's a vapor that appears for a little time
and then vanisheth away.
Our life is like a shadow,
the book of Psalms tells us.
And we find that there's a choice.
Look, if you will, at the book of Acts in chapter 17.
I'm gonna read two portions of scripture,
one in the book of Acts,
one in the book of Romans,
to just kind of help us see
that the choice of the individual,
it's a real thing.
Listen, there are times in which we go out
and preach the gospel.
There are times in which we teach
and talk to somebody about their need for salvation,
and they may reject it.
And we have to be careful
not to get discouraged by that.
They're not rejecting you,
they're rejecting Jesus.
Sometimes that's difficult for us as believers.
I like to think that everybody that I talk to
about Jesus would accept him.
I really do.
I mean, it's the greatest truth ever told to humanity.
That you're a sinner,
and that you're condemned,
but God loves you,
and he died for you,
and he offers you eternal life.
Like, who would not want that?
But so many people that we talk to say,
not now, no, I'm okay,
maybe later, no, I don't believe it,
whatever, they reject.
And if we're not careful
as the ones bearing the message,
we can get discouraged by that,
and then we can stop going forth
and giving the message
because we have this idea,
well, no one wants to hear.
I preached a message last year
to end our missions conference
about the seed being in the barn.
And the reality is that
there were various reasons
that they had for not sowing the seed.
And sometimes we have,
and that was a physical thing,
that was sowing the seed
out in the field for a harvest,
and well, it's not time,
it's this, it's that,
the weather's not right,
fill in the blank,
what all the problems are
on why we're not gonna sow the seed.
When we begin to think about
making the spiritual application,
sometimes we don't sow the seed
because we say,
well, no one wants to hear it.
No one's gonna believe it.
Listen, I believe this morning
that Romans one and verse 16
is still true.
For the gospel is the power
of God unto salvation, amen.
And he says,
I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ.
Why?
For it is the power of God unto salvation.
I believe this morning
that Jesus still saves, hallelujah.
Praise the Lord.
He's not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance.
Praise the Lord that the gospel still works.
We find here in Acts chapter number 17,
Acts chapter number 17,
and look in verse number 32,
if you will.
In Acts chapter number 17,
Paul was preaching here.
We're getting to the end
of the context here.
He had been in Thessalonica,
been in Berea,
and he goes down to Athens
because of some things going on there.
And his spirit is stirred within him.
And he begins to preach the gospel there.
He sees a city that's wholly given
to idolatry.
And he says this in verse number 23,
that he passed by
and beheld your devotions.
I found an altar with this inscription
to the unknown God,
whom therefore you ignorantly worship.
Him declare I unto you.
Aren't you thankful to know him
and to be able to declare him?
We find that you come to verse 32.
The Bible says this.
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead,
some mocked and others said,
we will hear thee again on this matter.
So Paul departed from among them.
The beginning of verse number 34 says,
how be it certain men claimed unto him
and what and believed.
Listen, the response is gonna be mixed.
Why?
Because there's the choice of the individual.
If you could make someone get saved,
I'd question their salvation.
Why?
Because it's not a force thing.
We don't believe in conversion by force.
We're not gonna make somebody come down.
Listen, when I deal with kids,
I am so cautious dealing with kids.
So cautious.
Man, I'll ask them 105 different ways
if I can figure them out.
I just ask them and re-ask them
and ask them and ask them and ask them.
Why?
Because I wanna make sure they understand it.
With our own children, I would deal with them
and then holler.
I'd say, all right, now go talk to mom.
And then if you're still good after talking to mom,
then they come back and talk to me.
Well, not because they can't be saved,
but I wanna make sure they understand.
I can't force conversion.
Because if it's forced, it's not genuine.
It's not real conversion.
And how many people could have a false sense of security
and not truly be saved?
So we find here that there's gonna be this mixed response.
Why?
because everyone has a choice,
and it's important that we see the choice of the individual.
Now listen, it'd be my prayer
that everyone would choose Jesus, amen?
That you just choose to be saved
and choose to live for Christ.
But I understand this,
not even everyone that's saved actually lives for Him.
Am I right?
Not everyone that's saved even lives for Him,
and that's sad.
Because when we understand what He's done for us,
we ought to say, I want to live for Him.
So we find here the choice,
look in Romans chapter number 10.
In Romans chapter number 10,
again, another familiar portion of Scripture,
as we look at this truth with regard,
do you want to be free?
Listen, we live in the midst of a place
where we have freedom as Americans,
but so many Americans are in bondage to sin.
They're lost, and they need to be saved
by the grace of God.
The message of freedom that we preach
is the message of freedom that they need.
Because the greatest need of those in Romans 8,
or excuse me, in John 8,
was not to be delivered from the bondage of the Romans,
it was the bondage of sin.
And here we are living in a free place in America,
and yet so many are in bondage.
So many are in bondage.
And can I tell you that the bondage that they're in
is worse, it's worse.
Remember what Jesus said when He was dealing there
with the man that was born blind,
and He goes through that whole dialogue,
and all the religious leaders are doubting that it's Him,
and all the situation that's going on,
and Jesus has demonstrated His power over blindness
and healed, and then at the end of that whole passage,
the religious leaders, they say this,
are we blind also?
You know what the truth is there?
That Jesus is revealing there's a truth
of physical blindness,
but there's the truth of spiritual blindness.
Can I tell you it'd be far better to be blind physically,
and to be able to see spiritually,
than to be able to see physically,
and to be blind spiritually.
In fact, when we went to Israel at this point eight years,
eight years ago, no, four years ago,
four years ago into Israel,
and on one of the days we went,
and man, it was an awesome experience,
we went to the garden tomb,
and as we went in there, you take your tour,
and what have you, and you go through the whole thing,
you take your tour, and then they bring your whole group
to a particular spot,
and there's somebody that's gonna talk to you,
and it was extremely obvious
that the individual that was gonna talk to us,
I don't remember his name, do you remember his name?
Peter, Peter was the guy's name, Peter.
And Peter was obviously blind.
He was obviously blind.
But he came up and he said,
there was a day that I was blind spiritually too,
but I got saved by the grace of God.
And he talked, talking about his testimony,
I'm telling you what, you hear a blind man physically
make that connection and make that application
to being saved and being able to see spiritually,
though he, oh man, it was exciting.
Praise the Lord.
See, when we look at this thing of bondage
and we see the condition, listen, there's a choice.
I can't make the choice for them.
In Romans chapter number 10,
the Bible says, beginning in verse number nine,
notice here, it says this, that if thou,
that's singular, that if thou shalt confess
with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart
that God hath raised him from the dead,
thou shalt be saved.
Now, remember what Jesus said in John chapter number three,
when Nicodemus is talking to him, he says,
that I say unto thee, ye must be born again.
Listen, every single person has to be born again.
Ye is plural.
But here as we're reading, it's a personal decision.
It's an individual choice.
And we find that he says in verse number 10,
for with the heart, man believeth unto righteousness
and with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation.
For the scripture saith, whosoever believeth on him
shall not be ashamed.
For there's no difference between the Jew and the Greek.
For the same Lord over all is rich
and all that call upon him.
Aren't you thankful?
Listen, in God's economy, there's lost and there's saved.
And he died for everyone.
He's no respecter of persons.
And the Bible says in verse number 13,
for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord
shall be saved.
Hallelujah.
We see the choice of the individual.
This morning, we see the condition of humanity.
We see the compassion of Christ.
We see the choice of the individual.
Let me say this, number four, if you're taking notes,
the consequence of your choice,
the consequence of your choice.
I only have two points this evening,
so I kind of balanced it out.
Four this morning, two tonight, amen?
And, but we look here,
and look at the consequence of your choice.
The Lord offers freedom to every individual.
But he doesn't force it.
He didn't make those religious leaders
whom he told them, you shall die in your sins.
He knew that he would go to the cross and die for them,
and pay for their sin, to offer them the freedom.
But he didn't force it.
He didn't make them.
We think about the consequence of our choice.
He, the Lord, gives you the opportunity.
It's important, however,
that we understand the consequence of that choice.
See, so often today, people have this idea,
I have my freedom, I have my choice, I can do what I want.
It's kind of nonsense,
and I don't want to get into all of that this morning.
And at a certain level,
there is a truth that you can do what you want.
But you're responsible for what you do.
You're accountable for what you do, right?
Does that make sense?
You can go out and you can break the law,
but if you do, you're responsible,
you're accountable for it.
And so we find this morning
that when we understand the consequence of your choice,
Jesus is not gonna make you accept him.
But for those that do, the consequence is great.
For those who do not, the consequence is known as well.
Notice in John chapter number three,
we'll deal on the negative side of it first.
Those that would reject,
they hear the truth of the gospel.
They understand, as we have looked here
in John chapter number eight,
in Romans chapter number eight,
that there's this law that's existing,
and it's the law of sin and death,
and that you're in bondage,
and that Jesus has provided the freedom,
and the truth shall make you free.
But you say, no, I'm gonna reject that.
That's not for me.
I don't believe that.
Let that be for someone else.
That's your decision.
But there's a consequence.
The Bible says in John chapter three,
in verse number 36,
he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life,
and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life.
Notice this, but the wrath of God abideth on him.
Someone wrote a gospel tract years ago.
What do I have to do to go to hell?
Nothing.
Nothing, because you're condemned already.
You're condemned already.
And here's the reality.
When the Bible says, at the end of verse number 36 here,
that he that believeth not the Son,
notice it says, shall not see life,
but the wrath of God abideth on him.
Can I tell you that eternity's a long time?
Just read Ecclesiastes yesterday,
and the Bible says that man goeth to his long home.
And it says that the wrath of God abideth on him.
Listen, there's some people today
that think they're living up life.
Oh, they're in bondage.
They think they have liberty.
We looked at that in 2 Peter chapter number two.
They're in bondage.
They think that they have some kind of freedoms
and liberties, and they're enjoying
whatever they're enjoying,
but the reality is that death comes for every single person.
The rich, the poor, comes to everyone.
The young, the old, right?
And at that moment,
the Bible says that the wrath of God abideth on him.
He that believeth not the Son shall not see life,
but the wrath of God abideth on him.
The truth of Revelation chapter number 20,
man goes to those that have rejected the Lord Jesus Christ.
They do not believe on the Lord.
They do not have life.
The wrath of God abideth on him.
They'll be separated from God forever.
Hell and then the lake of fire.
Bible says that death and hell
were cast into the lake of fire.
This is the second death.
Listen, that's not a party.
Separation from God forever.
Torment, torture.
God doesn't want that for anyone.
We read that already, or I referenced that already
in 2 Peter chapter three,
that he's not willing that any should perish,
but he doesn't force the individual
to make the choice of accepting.
Does that make sense?
So we come here and we see the consequence of the choice
for those that reject,
but then think about the consequence of the choice
for those that receive.
The Bible said there,
the beginning of the verse,
he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life.
Aren't you thankful for that?
Look in John chapter number 10,
one of my favorite portions of scripture
dealing with the security of the believer
and understanding what we have in Christ
and the consequence of our choice.
The Bible tells us in John chapter number 10,
and beginning there in verse number 27,
my sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me.
In verse.
and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish,
neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.
My Father which gave them me is greater than all,
and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
I and my Father are one."
Oh man, the security.
The Bible says that we're kept by the power of God.
The Bible tells us that we have an inheritance
that's reserved in heaven for us.
It's a wonderful promise that we find
the consequence of our choice because everyone has a choice.
And you have the right to your choice.
I have the right to do, you're perfectly fine.
Absolutely, but would you understand the consequence,
the responsibility of the choice that you make?
No one's gonna force you to choose Jesus,
but I would beg you to choose Jesus.
Why?
Because the consequences are too great.
The Bible says that every knee is gonna bow
and every tongue is gonna confess.
Many of you have heard me say this before,
it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when.
And when makes all the difference.
Because if you choose Jesus, if you accept
the Lord Jesus Christ, your personal Savior
on this side of eternity, you'll spend forever with him.
But after you take that final breath here on earth,
you will bow the knee and your tongue will confess,
but it will be eternally too late.
You'll spend eternity in a lake of fire.
That's the authority of God's word.
Now I know this morning that I'm preaching
mainly to saved people, I understand that.
And I hope that when we think about this thing of,
do you wanna be free, that we can think back
in our own minds of when we got saved by the grace of God,
that we can look back in our own lives
and think about the bondage that we were in,
but now understand the freedom that we have in Christ.
I said this on Wednesday evening, the freedom in Christ.
In fact, let me talk just to the believers
for a little while, look over at Galatians chapter number five
I mentioned this briefly there on Wednesday evening
about the freedom that we have in Christ as being saved
and what a great blessing it is to know the Lord
and to be saved and you've made the right choice.
You chose Jesus and you accepted him
as your personal Savior.
Somebody gave you the gospel and you understand
there was nothing you could do.
You were condemned already, amen?
We're hopeless and helpless, but God who is rich in mercy.
Praise the Lord.
I was dead, my trespasses and sins and so were you.
The condition of humanity, we're in bondage to sin.
But we find that we've made that right choice
and we've accepted the Lord Jesus Christ
for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord
shall be saved and so now understand
as we conclude here this morning just for a little bit
dealing with this idea, yes the message primarily
dealing with if you're not saved, if you're in bondage
would you be saved?
Today is the day of salvation.
But what about those of us that are saved?
The Bible tells us this in Galatians chapter number five.
Notice it says stand fast.
Therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ
hath made us, what?
Free.
And be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
You know what happens sometimes?
We don't understand fully the freedom
that we have in Christ.
Sometimes people have this idea that I'm free in Christ.
I've been saved and I can do whatever I wanna do now.
That's not freedom.
It's not freedom.
In fact in verse 13 here in Galatians chapter number five
it says this for brethren you have been called
unto liberty only use not liberty for an occasion
to the flesh but by love serve one another.
The freedom that we have now is that I have the freedom
to live for Christ.
I have the freedom to serve him.
I have the freedom to please him.
I have the freedom, listen I couldn't do any of that
before I got saved.
I was in bondage to sin.
I couldn't please the Lord.
I couldn't serve the Lord.
I couldn't pray and give the gospel and do all those things
that I now have freedom to be able to do
and I have freedom to please the Lord.
You know a lost man can't please the Lord.
Can't.
Lost man can't please God.
But you know what the idea of the saved person,
what does Paul say to Timothy?
He tells him there to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
He tells him that he might please him.
Paul had the desire to please the Lord.
We studied that last year a little bit
in 2 Corinthians.
You study in chapter number five.
He lived so that he could please the Lord
and we understand this morning that that freedom
that we have, listen he says,
listen don't you have freedom but be careful
that you're not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
Contextually what's happened there in the region of Galatia
the first missionary journey, Paul goes forth
and he goes with the gospel and people get saved.
There are four churches that are established
in the region of Galatia
and right afterwards the Judaizers come in
and they start trying to teach them
that you need to follow all of these things of the law
and Paul says, no, no, no, do not be entangled
with the bondage.
Why?
Because the law could never bring salvation.
In fact, he's already dealt with that in this same book
in chapter number three in verse number 21
is the law then against the promises of God.
God forbid for if there had been a law given
which could have given life,
verily righteousness should have been by the law
but what do we find?
Well, the scripture hath concluded all under sin.
So we find that what the law does is it says you're a sinner
Paul says if there's not, in Romans he says,
listen, if there had not been a law
that said thou shalt not covet,
I wouldn't have known that I was coveting, right?
That's the purpose, that's the idea
and so we find here that what happens sometimes
is we wanna be entangled again with the yoke of bondage
and Paul says, listen, stand fast therefore
in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free
and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage
and then he tells them another thing that's taking place
and so that there's no misunderstanding
as he gets there to verse number 13.
Listen, don't go to the other end of the spectrum
and think that I have freedom
and that means I can do whatever I wanna do.
I've met people that say, well, I'm going to Jesus,
I'm going to heaven when I die
because I accepted Jesus
and I can just live however I wanna live.
Well, we talked about that choice thing
but there's responsibility and there's accountability.
The chastening of the Lord is a real thing
and if you wanna deal with the chastisement of the Lord,
that's up to you, man, that's the decision that you make
and the consequence that follows
because whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth,
that's what the Bible says
and so we find here this morning that listen,
many of us have been saved, we have been made free.
My question is simply this,
are we living in the freedom that we have in Christ?
Not the freedom to go do whatever we wanna do.
Listen, I believe today that the generation in America
doesn't understand freedom properly.
We're talking about it nationally.
I don't think they understand freedom properly, all right?
But as believers, because that's the focus of the message
because we're a church, I'm not a politician,
I'm not trying to be out there
and deal with the problems in society from that perspective
but as a church, a body of believers,
what am I saying?
Listen, don't misunderstand your freedom.
We have freedom to serve Christ.
We have freedom to live for him.
We have freedom to please him and what a blessing that is.
Listen, I don't know if you remember
what it was to be bound by sin.
I don't remember if you knew what it was
to be in that place as Paul talks about
in the book of Romans when he was in bondage to sin.
Romans chapter number six talks about it quite a bit
and talking about the fact that we have been made free.
He says, for sin shall not have dominion over you
for you're not under the law but under grace.
Listen, I'm thankful to no longer
be under the dominion of sin.
Those people in John chapter number eight,
they heard Jesus speak.
They heard him teach.
And as he is teaching, he tells them,
if you continue my word, then are you my disciples indeed
and you shall know the truth
and the truth shall make you free.
And there were those that were delusional
and they said, we've never been in bondage.
And Jesus says, verily, verily I say unto you,
whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.
If the son therefore shall make you free,
you shall be free indeed.
I'm thankful for the freedom that I have as an American
but more importantly than that,
I'm thankful for the freedom that I have in Christ.
You know what the reality is this morning?
I hope this doesn't happen.
I'm not trying to be prophetic.
I'm just being real with you.
Somebody could come and take our freedom as Americans.
Right?
Oh, it's never gonna happen.
You better get your head out of the sand.
I hope that it never happens
but it is absolutely possible
that our freedom as Americans could be taken away.
But you know what I'm thankful for?
No one can take away my freedom that I have in Christ.
Nobody.
And I'm so thankful to have that freedom.
Yes, I'm thankful for the freedom that I have as an American
but more importantly and more precious
is the freedom that I have in Christ.
And we know so many people that have freedom as Americans
but they're in bondage to sin.
And the question is this.
What do we do about it?
Are we going out there preaching the gospel?
Are we telling about the compassion of Christ?
Are we being compassionate to tell them
of the one who died for them
so that they could be delivered from the bondage of sin
and have freedom that we love and enjoy,
the freedom that we have to serve him and to please him,
to come boldly under the throne of grace?
I couldn't do that when I was lost.
Listen, the Old Testament folks,
they couldn't do that either.
Only the high priest once a year
could go into the Holy of Holies.
But now you and I, every day of our lives,
we can come boldly under the throne of grace.
Why?
Because I have freedom in Christ.
It's a blessing.
And so this morning, do you want to be free?
You say, I already am.
Then live in freedom.
Don't be entangled with the bondage
and don't use the freedom as an occasion to the flesh.
Please Christ, let's pray.
Father, we love you.
Thank you for loving us.
Thank you for the word of God
and thank you for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Lord, I pray that if there's one present here
or tuned in via live stream,
Lord, they have a choice to make today.
No one can force them.
The choice is an individual choice.
We've seen it.
We've looked at it from the scriptures
in a variety of places.
And God, I pray that they'd make the right choice,
that they would confess with their mouth
and believe in their heart,
that they would call upon the Lord Jesus Christ
for salvation, recognizing that they're in bondage to sin.
That law of sin and death is active and functioning.
I'm thankful for the compassion of Christ.
Lord, I pray that that individual would trust Christ today.
Lord, I pray for every person that's been saved
by the grace of God.
Would you help us to live in freedom?
Would you help us to please you with our lives?
Thank you for the work that you do in and through us.
I pray that you'd be honored and glorified.
Give us a passion to reach the lost.
So many that live in freedom as a citizen of this nation
but are in bondage to sin.
And that's got eternal consequences.
Give us a burden, give us a passion.
I pray that you'd have your will and way
in these moments of invitation
and we'll give you the glory for it.
In Christ's name, we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads around, eyes are closed.
Kimberly's gonna play quietly on the piano.
If you're a man and not sure of heaven,
the Marcus here has a Bible.
We'll take a Bible and show you.